---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

Question:
What do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"? what are some advantages of open vs. closed source, what are some potential problems with open source, why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?)

Connor's Response:
When I hear the term "open source" the first thing that comes to mind is Apple vs Microsoft, and their different approaches to open source development most notably in the years prior to Apple's mainstream adoption. Stemming from this, Apple, as a company, has been known to take a less open source approach. At the time, Apples "walled garden" of technology development directly contradicted Microsofts more developer friendly and open sourced approach. 

From this, some advantages and disadvantages of open source development become more apparent. On Microsofts more open source focused platform developers had tools to develop on top of as well as better understand Microsoft's core products (Windows). This, of course, ended up being a great advantage early on for Microsoft.

On the other hand, Apple with its "walled garden" of technology didn't have the support of the open source community. One advantage of this, for Apple, is that they retained full control of all aspects of development as well as all intellectual property or ideas stemming from development. This, early on, arguably hurt Apple and their mainstream adoption. 

I registered for this class to see a side of software development that remains hidden from the vast majority of new college-educated software developers. Simply put, we are all taught to develop and create our ideas, or implement the ideas of others. Prior to my graduation from NYU, I thought it prudent to learn more about the power of open source development, and what it truly means to be a contributor. 

--------------------

Question:
projects: list names of four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past; give brief descriptions for each, explain why you use it and what the alternatives might be (note, the projects do not have to be source code based) (Keep in mind that these blogs are publicly available to anybody who stumbles upon them. Make sure that the posts are appropriate.)

Connor's Response:
Mask_RCNN: Mack R-CNN is an object detection and instance segmentation open source python project utilizing Keras and TensorFlow backend. I utilized this project as a foundation for developing a Neural Net which, after training on a sample data set, is able to perform accurate image segmentation. Alternative approaches exist via Pillow, a fork of PIL (Python Imaging Library) and/or OpenCV.
Flask: Flask is a Python micro-framework for building web applications. I have used Flask for many different web application development projects. Flask is an industry leader in this regard, notably running websites such as Pinterest. Alternatively, the Django project could be used.
Ngrok: Ngrok is a local tunnel/localhost solution. Combine with the ability to specify a local port within Flask, Ngrok allows you to locally host/tunnel a port with a specific subdomain. For freelance development, a tool like Ngrok allows the user to turn a local development server into a public URL where a client can demo the application. The localtunnel project would serve as a similar alternative.
Splinter: Splinter is a python test framework for web applications. I have used this tool to set up automated tests on web applications. Additionally, I have used this tool in combination with BeautifulSoup to scrape and manipulate HTML. Alternatively, Selenium would achieve similar results. 
